this is episode 4 of AR & igho the
active research and informed opinion
Chinese language course in this episode
for the first time in the series I'm
gonna do some Q&A with you in the
audience I'm gonna ask some questions
and you can pause the video and write
out an original answer if you don't want
to do that you can just see the answers
I give and we discuss the grammar and
word choice we're going to be using the
same words that we learned in earlier
episodes of course before we get into
too much new vocabulary if you look at
the title of this episode Oh chi-su
she's young tran bougwan sure for sure
since when one of the significant things
here is that I'm not phrasing this in
the way I as a native speaker of English
would naturally tend to phrase it so
this sentence is whether or not it's
propaganda I first wrote this in my own
words in Chinese I expressed it in
comprehensible Chinese the way an
english-speaking foreigner would phrase
it and then I googled around the
internet to try to figure out what is
the most common way a native speaker of
Chinese would say this and this is one
of the ways I saw this all over the
Internet
alright so let's say one of the most
labor-intensive elements of this series
of videos is that I make an effort not
to give you artificial textbook Chinese
and not to give you my own version of
comprehensible Outsiders Chinese but to
depict the Chinese language the way
Chinese people really say it and use it
so we struggle with and get used to
those types of idioms those types of
sentence patterns so bougwan Oh glad
book 1 translated here as whether or not
but it has a little bit of the sense of
not withstanding in English you can tell
I'm Canadian because I say
notwithstanding a lot Americans don't
use the word nearly as often as
Canadians do nor do the British so the
point is here it's not really asking you
a sincere question like the person is
not stating this with the tone
of sincerely not knowing whether or not
something is propaganda this would be
the beginning of a sentence saying
something like well whether or not what
we're reading is propaganda we can still
learn a lot about Chinese culture from
it whether or not something is
propaganda we can practice the Chinese
language deepen our appreciation of the
language the grammar so on and so forth
whether or not this is propaganda maybe
it's really helping us develop a
sophisticated attitude towards politics
in China in the 21st century so it's
this kind of whether or not whether or
not it's propaganda let's make the best
of it as a source so here's an easy
question that you could give many
different answers to just on the basis
of the propaganda we talked about in the
last few episodes we SHIMAA bike show in
yellow Suns a judo jungle way Shenyang
shin-soo Choo is a drum corps
we're just getting started with today's
lesson but among the new words we've
introduced already we've seen one of the
most important phonetic irregularities
in the pinyin writing system we've seen
it occur twice pinyin is famous for its
reliability and its predictability in
the sense that one a symbol corresponds
to one sound in a fairly predictable way
however you might have noticed that this
new word change fan here what we might
expect to be an a sound instead is what
a native speaker of English would
perceive as an e sound sin sounds like
an en ending change Fang likewise the
very commonly used word sends a Senza
you can compare my voice to my lovely
assistant
in either case this is not what a native
speaker would expect to hear with the
letter A it's much closer to what we
would expect here with the letter e so
we return to our writing exercise let's
hear that question one more time way
Shenyang shin-soo Choo a trunk or why
did Bethune shoe
to live in China but including the extra
verb Yahoo he or shifts the sense of the
choice a little bit it's a little bit
more like why would he have wanted to
live in China why did he want to live in
China and this is really a sort of
simplified way of stating the question
here on screen briefly now I googled
around for an example of how a native
speaker of Chinese would pose this
question to cut their native speakers of
jenny's this is asking the question in
terms of why would Norman Bethune have
wanted to leave behind the comforts of
Canada in order to live in a strange
difficult far-off place like China I'm
asking you here to give two answers many
possible answers would be equally valid
try to write one answer using the
sentence pattern wait that should that
we learned before and one sentence
pattern with in Wei and soy there are
many possible answers you could offer on
the basis of the Chinese propaganda we
heard in the last few episodes beginning
the sentence with way this means that
we're now going to state the objective
or the purpose that he was working
towards wait is she so why did Norman
with you choose to live in China
wait there's a color changing we'd
assured tangia turn one on both Sanjaya
Congre done Joan wait there should
change our color changes in order to
join in the struggle against the
Japanese in order to join in the
anti-japanese or this verb tangia is
used to mean joining in all kinds of
activities formal and informal joining
in a club joining in a sports team but
it is specifically used in politics to
mean joining one side or the other of an
ongoing struggle including outright war
or civil war taking a step away from the
propaganda version of history for just a
moment we could of course give several
very different answers reflecting the
real life the real intellectual motion
personal concerns of norm Bethune oniton
Beethoven sheikah Phaeton foods a virgin
Allen Cheung by Johanna eager fetch on
food zadran foods a' is love one
vocabulary foods a means complicated
very good word to know the main word i
think here that's confusing for you
still confusing for me is the verb chun
so the first three words here Alan Chung
oh that's just the name Alan and then
this Chung is a very confusing verb here
in context it means that he called him
so Alan called with uni Alan described
him as being right he called him a very
complicated man oh I told and sheikah
feet on food father Jane earlier today I
was listening to chapter one of a
Chinese language textbook that have
never worked with before and the author
of this textbook was assuring me the
Chinese is really a very easy language
to learn
I don't know if people imagine you'll
sell more textbooks that way the
sentence we're looking at here has two
examples of a peculiar way in which
Chinese remains a remarkably difficult
language to learn even when you're at
the intermediate level even when you're
at the advanced level so Todd's I do a
die you may be familiar with duei duay
alone is level 1 vocabulary you may be
familiar with Dai Dai is also level 1
vocabulary however you could read this
sentence and struggle to understand it
not knowing that when they are combined
duay thigh has a unique verbal meaning
this is basically a completely different
verb and you can't guess the meaning not
even if you already know today and you
already know die even if you've done the
memorization you can still make the
mistake because reading this character
by character you think Todd's I way and
then we have a separate meaning starting
with the next word
died and no you have to figure out even
if you're using a dictionary your
dictionary won't help you if you just
look up today or you just look up die
you will not figure this out how did I
knew Jim hi Jodi
for me and today Radian so these two
characters combined form a new word form
a unique verb they die which is
something like to cope with now if you
look it up in your dictionary may or may
not say cope but the reason why I'm
using the English verb cope is that it
almost always has sort of negative
connotations you're struggling with a
problem you're dealing with something
and you know normally we don't say
you're dealing with something or coping
with something in English if it's a
wonderful thing to enjoy dealing with
okay so that's I do a die you and for
judging hi Jodi follow me and today
trivia
all right so whoa whoa whoa whoa we have
another example of exactly the same
phenomenon in Chinese you may already
know the word Sun and you may already
know the word die but if you look them
up separately in the dictionary you
won't be able to figure out what the
sentence means you must figure out that
when the two words are combined Suns I
is again a unique verb or verbal
expression in the Chinese language so it
looks like two separate words but this
Suns eye is in fact one word with one
meaning and it is basically a fancy way
to say that something exists you may
recognize the Sun from Xiong Sun meaning
to survive so it has meanings related to
persisting continuing so on and so forth
the example I'm giving you on screen
contrasts textbook Chinese the type of
example you're likely to find when
looking up sun's eye in a dictionary to
the way people use the language in the
real world and if you google around you
can confirm this hypothesis very easily
nice action justice young sons I - MA
that's just far too many words from a
syllabic language do you believe that in
this world there exists ghosts right are
there ghosts do are ghosts something
that really exists in this world but you
know it's so much easier to just use
verbs and Chinese like yo yo grandma
that's the way people in practice will
really use the language so now we're
equipped to completely understand the
sentence in full and then maybe we can
give an answer to the question that
started this whole discussion maybe we
can give an answer that will offer a
rather less propagandistic perspective
on why it was that Norman Bethune left
Canada to live in China by tolling
sheikah future foods a virgin part a
three day new Jim hang judging for me
since a Chilean PT Aaron don't go so to
be polite we may say deleterious aspects
of his character existed the word
deleterious may seem I don't know
tremendously polite and refined in
English but let me tell you something
this is level 2 vocabulary trade en the
disadvantages of something the
deleterious aspects of somebody or
something and I mentioned before it
seems that tongues I is a needlessly
fancy and abstruse way of saying that
something exists but I suppose it might
be more polite than just saying he had
disadvantages to his character to say
that there were aspects of his hair this
is foun yin aspects that were
disadvantageous you know such as how he
dealt with women and alcohol yes the
unspoken witness to history here is his
wife and his marriage back in Canada
that he left behind taking these
considerations into accounts
we might come up with a very different
answer to the question I am not showing
off my handwriting here this is very far
from calligraphic but this is writing
very rapidly with two very different
pens my answer in way to aging tangia
see Pena me John me John
Civil War si Vania me John
the Spanish Civil War because he had
joined in the Spanish Civil War because
he participated in the Spanish Civil War
where you might say because he took a
side in the Spanish Civil War
therefore how could he not go to China
therefore he had to go to China this
sentence pattern is not sarcastic in
tone it really just emphasizes that
something inevitably is gonna happen or
that you felt that you had to do
something
anyway tinysine tendency by nature sweet
toffee cup this is a little bit
provocative this answer but I am
suggesting to you that he was a Canadian
he did have a certain kind of
comfortable status in Canadian society
but he alienated himself from Canadian
society by joining the Communist Party
by fighting in the Spanish Civil War and
of course the side he fought on in the
Spanish Civil War you know he lost the
war they lost so after when you're in
that situation what are you gonna do
well maybe he really had no better
option then going away to China
here's a simple answer that some of you
might use yourselves in your daily life
if somebody would ask you why did you
decide to move to China why did you
decide to start learning Chinese we did
catch a sin - uncle in order to start a
new life wait there's two K she seemed
they're so [ __ ] and this phrase is used
often enough to describe people who are
starting a new life after a divorce
after their marriage has broken apart
and they are like Norman Bethune
and move on we can practice using in way
and swore ye as a sentence structure to
then make it explicit that he was going
to China to start a new life because his
marriage had ended in failure
anyway topic William say how high she
you should back on so you talk a she
seemed they're so [ __ ] in waited a
hoodie in sway ho hi shot Ayesha by Gao
jiong Tsui takashi-san - oh ho well you
can call me sentimental
you can call me optimistic but whether
or not it's propaganda I do believe that
one of the reasons he went to China was
to help the sick the injured and the
poor and uh I'm very glad that I didn't
end up with a degree in the Medical
Sciences because I'd probably be tempted
to buy an airplane ticket to all kinds
of conflicts civil wars and disasters
all over the world if there were the
possibility for me to really make a
positive difference
why does she do so being most of this
vocabulary we've already learned so you
can probably guess the sentence being
you end right being do you remember
being there's a quiz at the end I
promise
so being you could pretty much learn
jocha Shang pinyin as one set phrase it
is used very often with this complete
set of five characters all group
together so I'm suggesting to you here
whether or not it's propaganda I think
he went in order to provide treatment to
the sick of the wounded wait there she
told you Sean Bean Bing boom glass Ubu
she's young Tran hey guys I'm cynical
but I'm not that cynical
[Music]
then at the end